# A [Fedora Bootc](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/bootc) Workstation

This project aims at providing an easy way to build and manage Fedora bootc images for a desktop workstation using GNOME.
Once installed on your device, updates to your system happen in form of container images.
Follow the instructions below to create your own OS.

## Customizing the OS

The OS can be customized in the Containerfile which uses the `fedora-bootc` base image and adds only a few packages on top.
The idea is to containerize applications instead of making them part of the bootc host.
This way, updates to applications are decoupled from the OS and do not require a reboot of the system.
You may find [Toolbx](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-silverblue/toolbox/) to be of help.

## Build Steps

You can use the Makefile to automate most of the tasks involved:
* `make oci-image` to build the OCI image
* `make disk-image` to convert the OCI image into a disk image

Make sure to run both commands as root since `make disk-image` requires root privileges.

You can use the following variables to tweak the image via `make $VARIABLE=$VALUE`:
* `OCI_IMAGE` to change the reference of the OCI image (default: `quay.io/vrothberg/fedora-bootc-workstation:41`)
* `DISK_TYPE` to change the type of the disk image (default: `anaconda0iso`)
* `ROOTFS` to change the default filesystem of the disk image (default: `xfs`)
* `ARCH` to change the architecture of the OCI and disk image (default: `amd64`)

Changing the variables may come in handy if you desire to run the disk image in a VM before.
For more information on supported values and next steps, please refer to the [bootc-image-builder](https://github.com/osbuild/bootc-image-builder) and the [Fedora Bootc documentation](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/bootc/).

## Installation

You can copy the Anaconda ISO in `./output/bootiso/install.iso` generated by `make disk-image` to a USB stick and use that to install it on baremetal.
